OK so last time we talked about leading zeros and how to add them.
Hope you are now super come to that and you will never forget this super cool awesome trick.
How to add leading zero's.
And today I'll show you how to cover down on the fly.
I thought that this is an important part for this tutorial section because even though we don't need
to convert data we're relying on the implicit conversion.
I think that it is worth having.
Looking at a few examples of explicit data conversion just for the sake of practice so that you know
how to do explicit data conversion when the time comes and you do need to do it in your work prox.
So what are you going to do is close of these other windows that we don't need make up some make some
space here.
And as you know actually if we're going to close this was well so execute this proc I think we forgot
to do this last time by the way remember that.
So that thing I was talking about when you you've changed a proc but you haven't executed.
So exit your prog before closing and just to make sure that you've saved the modification you have done
.
And what I what I do sometimes or often is actually select everything including where is it.
So including from end to alter and then execute Yeah like that.
And then I close the proc.
So it's up to the do that way do it this way but just make sure you save it.
All right.
So we're going to look at the other one the transactional door because it has more data types and here
these are the types who specified.
As you recall we're relying on implicit conversion and this is a topic we discussed in the previous
section of the course where you can basically rely on a all to do the conversion for you as long as
it's from var char to these types.
And you know our chairs are correct.
Sometimes you know we do a lot of preparation before the load and we we work in Excel and we discussed
this in a lot of detail how to prepare our data so that when we upload into Excel as RAW files we have
as minimal headache as possible because we've already prepared it in the best in the best way and all
of this implicit conversion happens very easy.
But sometimes you will be faced with situations when you will either get errors or you will know in
advance that your daughter will not be easily converted from these bar charts into these types.
I'll give you a simple example so where's our rafał.
So that's our raw file.
So here you can see for instance that dates we formatted the date really really nicely.
This is what it does is called This is called the conventional I think method there's a specific name
for this type of format universal form or something that because it's very easy to work with.
Skill loves this type of format.
When you have a year month date or date and in this case it converts easily but you can have a situation
when you weren't able to do that.
For instance if your file is too large to even open in Excel or even notepad plus plus or anywhere that
it's you know several maybe dozens or maybe 100 gigabytes or something like that you can open it then
and you just put it into a skill as is and and this format is incorrect it's not like you wanted to
be.
So it has like slashes or Dodsworth an American form in English form and whatever the case is.
But you know that skill is going to error error out when you try to convert it because implicit conversion
won't work.
You have to specify the format of the date.
Then one that's one of the cases when you might need to perform an explicit conversion.
So let's have a look at a few examples of explicit conversions just for practice sake.
We'll pretend that even though everything is working here fine.
We'll pretend that we we do need to do an explicit conversion and I'll show you how to do it.
So all you have to do is like in the example of adding leading zeros you do oleum with duplications
in this select part so this is this is whatever you select here that's what goes into your table.
Here are you just setting up your table you've done that.
You know what you want.
Great.
Here you just specifying insert into your table so this is just like an auxiliary part.
This is the main part where you have to do all of your modifications as I call them on the fly.
So basically you selecting something from a table on the fly will fall at any intermediate storage facility
you're modifying it and you're right away putting it into your final destination.
Let's look at that.
Let's start order date.
Let's say we want to convert the order date.
This column called Order Date into a date type So we're going to type and convert.
It's going to be a date expression or a date.
And here you have as we discussed convert is better than cost for data because you can actually specify
the type of data you want to be converting.
So let me bring up one.
Give me a second tier skill.
I'm looking up in Google convert
So there we go to your skill costs and convert.
And here if we scroll down it has a list of the actual dates that you will date formats that you'll
be you can be working with.
So let me zoom my browser in a bit here so we can see better what's going on.
So if your day this is you you have an opportunity to tell a school which date your daughter is presented
in which format your date in your door is presented.
And here if you scroll down lower or lower there it is oh there that's a name canonical.
So that's the canonical format that we're working with.
And let's specify that.
So if I say well I don't have millisecond So I'm just going to say 20 right here if I say 20 and I select
that it works just fine.
But you see you lose the column name but that doesn't matter because that's just a select statement
you're still inserting into somewhere where there is a column name.
So that's not a problem but now say if my fi specified just for fun.
1 1 1 right.
What will happen.
What do you think will happen.
Execute.
Now this time this time it's.
Yeah.
That's I'm actually quite surprised sometimes it's smart about these things but let's say I specify
1 to 1.
So the US format
.
See now there there's an error conversion failed when converting date and or time from character string
This is a string that is correct and we're telling you all that this string is presented in this format
and you convert to that it can convert today because it's we've told the wrong format.
So in our case the format is 20.
So if in your case you got a row file where the format is one of these you know you just go here you
look it up you find the correct code and you put it into convert that will allow you to convert the
data on the fly.
Let's do another one let's say.
Let's say you were having trouble with a unit price.
And we want to cost that into into a flow right.
And here is the implicit conversion.
For some reason it's not working let's just I'll show you how to do it.
We won't come up with the reasons why it wouldn't be working.
But at least you will know how to deal with the problem.
If that ever comes up.
All right so as we discussed the cost is better than our a bit faster than convert because it's faster
to type cost you know price as float.
All right.
So first like this now.
Good.
It's working.
And see for that for example if I put it here it won't work because you can convert a float turn an
int followed specifying you know the rounding and stuff like that so it's a float and I can do the same
for units costs.
You can use a convert if you like.
I just think cost is faster cost.
This is going to be a flow that's going to be an int.
These are large chars.
You don't have to convert them you can if you want to.
Customer ID convert so on.
So let's do that again
truncate table insert 43 43.
Have a look.
Another reason why you might want to ever do this is let's say for his daughter you got the wrong file
.
It's not prepared by you.
Somebody else prepared it it's you imported from another database and these columns they already have
types for instance in unit prices or any float units is already integer and so on and you want to change
those types.
You might want units not to be a full integer.
You wanted to be a float because then you're going to be adding appending more rows where units is actually
a float.
Or in your in your data unit price is actually an integer and you need to somehow around this number
so you do a round and then you would do a cost into an integer and things like that or say maybe the
person that is the custodian of the data thought that order ID is an integer but you want to see it
as a string.
Then you would do one of those operations because otherwise sometimes the implicit conversion will not
work by itself.
So that's how you convert dot on the fly.
I hope that's handy.
You might not need it in in this course although I will try.
I will try for you to need it but you will definitely someday come across situations when this knowledge
will help you out in your work.